We just talked about whole numbers of integers, short and bright.
But in reality, we also have different categories of numbers, right?
These are called floating point types.
So floating points, type ideas that we can represent decimal numbers, for instance, or fractions
in real world.
For those, we have float type, which is decimal numbers.
So this represents all the decimal numbers you can imagine, and this holds 32 bits.
And we have doubles that hold 64 bit.
So all of these are floating point types.
Now there's a lot that's been written technically about these two types, mainly in computer science
arena.
There's books, there are studies there.
Papers have been written by gobir scientists to really distinguish these two.
But in a nutshell, the main point that you need to take all you need to think about when we talk about
floating point types is all comes down to precision because we want to be precise in the representation
of certain numbers.
OK.
So if you want a precise number to be represented, you would want to use double game because Double
will be able to hold more precision because number one, it holds 64 bits.
We have more space for our decimals.
All right.
So let's go and take a look in code.
How would we create these types?
So imagine we want it to represent a decimal number.
Well, the first one we would think of is the number PI.
So we're going to say foul pi and we going to set that equal to something.
In this case, it's going to be equal to three, not 14.
So this dot is what would represent a decimal number in this case.
This is going to be a double.
It is a double because every number that we don't specify with F or D at the end, it will automatically
be initialized as a double because the compiler will always infer that this is indeed a double because
it will say, Well, if you're creating a decimal number, that means you want most the most precision
and double offers that that is the default.
But the moment we say f like this, then this is going to be represented internally as a float.
Now, in some languages, you could put just an f as such, or you could just go and actually add the
uppercase F.
But in Kotlin, you will just go f like that the lowercase f.
So now it's no longer a double.
It is indeed a float.
And let's see if we can print this and say, Pi, let's run this and see what's going to happen.
I say float, OK, you say st that for if I remove that because we need more precision, let's see what's
going to happen.
I can see the number is still the same, but internally there are differences.
OK, so let's do this.
I'm going to change this number.
In fact, let's go ahead and add a few more decimal digits here.
So three something like this.
OK.
Just gibberish.
Let's run this.
OK, there go.
So nothing really new here.
Everything is the same, however.
Let me change this number real quick.
In fact, let's just say foul call this e and I'm going to say to that seven one eight two an eight,
18 to eight for something like this.
Let's run this.
This, of course, will be offered as a double, and you can see everything is good.
Now what will happen if I do the same things who file a float and it's going to be equal to this whole
number?
And then I put F to say float.
By the way, in Scotland, you could either put lowercase f or uppercase after the way works.
Let's see what is going to happen here.
So I'm going to say print Elgin because I want to use the print in your line and print out and see like
this do the same now e float and see what's going to happen.
Now you see the difference here.
So the first one here, that's our E, right, whole double number.
It was very precise.
It continued to show exactly all of our decimal digits has is there.
However, when we change the same number to a float because we added a penalty, f things change a little
bit.
You notice that we lost at least three decimals there.
And what happened is some rounding ended up happening because now this value here contains more than
six or seven decimal digits, right?
So one two three four five six seven eight nine 10, so more than six or seven, when we change to float,
it's going to round itself up to at least six to seven decimal digits.
So that is a difference between as you see double and float float.
It's not that precise Iran's itself up, but for double, it will always be precise, meaning it's not
going to round itself up as it does with float.
You can imagine if you're putting together an application, they will need precise results.
Precise numbers definitely will go with doubles as opposed to with floats for the reasons that we've
just demonstrated here.
All right, very good.
So I hope this is making some sense.
And again, just don't stress too much about it.
If you know, if it's making a lot of sense, because all I want you to understand is that he won precision,
you know, for these types of floating points type if you want precision.
Absolutely.
Go with doubles, if not really, then floats, that's totally fine.
OK, very good.
I'll see you next.